hi this is pressed tall Walker can you
place the numbers one through nine in
the following 3x3 grid so that each row
column and diagonal adds up to the same
number this is a condition for the 3x3
Magic Square I want you to find all
possible arrangements and I want you to
prove there are no other ways to do it
can you figure it out
give this puzzle a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for the
solution all right there are eight
different possibilities for the 3x3
Magic Square you'll notice some patterns
every single Square has the number five
in the center the corners of each square
are made up of the even numbers two four
six and eight the edges are made up of
the odd numbers 1 3 7 and 9 in fact
every single one of these eight patterns
is really a rotation and a reflection of
a single pattern so what do I mean by
that so let's focus on the Magic Square
in the upper left I'm going to create a
copy of it and now let's imagine
reflecting the numbers through the
middle so this will transpose the first
and third columns this brings another
Magic Square which was the second square
in our list let's make a copy of this
second Square I'm going to rotate 180
degrees and now I'm going to bring the
numbers right side up this was the 3rd
Magic Square in our list let's make a
copy of the first Square again now I'm
going to do a reflection across the
diagonal so this will bring all exchange
all the numbers that are across the
diagonal with each other this is another
Magic Square that was in our list and
you can continue you would actually find
that all of these magics
where's can be obtained by rotations and
reflections or combinations of rotations
and reflections of the first pattern so
they all actually can be obtained from
each other as a technical note these are
actually correspond to the symmetries of
a square or the dihedral group of order
eight so we're going to prove these are
the only ways you can have a three by
three Magic Square and we're going to do
that in several steps so first we're
going to say we don't actually know a
Magic Square exist but we're going to
come up with some conditions that if a
square exists certain things have to be
true so one thing is that every single
row column and diagonal is going to need
to sum to 15 so why is that let's take a
look at summing up the first row we
don't know what it is but we'll say the
sum has to be some constant M the second
row has to have exactly the same sum
because in a Magic row every single row
has the same sum the third row also has
to have the same sum so now let's add up
these three rows we have M 3 times which
brings us to 3m but there is another way
that we could sum up the three rows we
know that the three rows contain the
numbers one through nine used exactly
once so we know that all of the nine
rows all of the nine elements have to be
the sum of the numbers one through nine
so we have the sum of the numbers of one
through nine equal to 3m which means 45
equals 3m and so M equals fifteen so if
a magic square exists it needs to have a
magic sum of 15 I did this proof using
the three rows you could similarly do
that proof using the three columns now
step two we know that these three
numbers are going to need to add up to
15 so now we can try and compute the
different ways we can get to a sum of
fifteen from three distinct numbers
let's say we have one is our first
number
and then we want to add - in order to
get to 15 we would need to add 12 but
that's clearly a problem because our
numbers only go up to 9 so we cannot
have 12 and therefore we can't have one
in two at most we can have one being
paired with nine which means the middle
number would have to be five if we
paired one with eight then the middle
number would be six so we can go through
these possibilities and figure out there
are only eight distinct ways that we can
get these numbers to add up to 15
I'm going to put those sums to the side
but this is the crucial step in the
proof we're actually going to be able to
deduce a lot from it for example this
will be able to tell us the center
Square has to be five the center square
is involved in the middle row sum it's
involved in the middle column sum and
it's also involved in the sum of each of
the two diagonals so the center square
is involved in four different sums of
numbers so what possibly could the
center square be if we look at our sums
only the number five is involved in four
different combinations all of the other
ones are involved in either two or three
of the combinations so that means the
center square would have to be five
continuing the reason we reasoning we
can find the corners have to be even
numbers a corner would be involved in
one of the row sums one of the column
sums and also one of the diagonal sums
so each corner is involved in exactly
three of the sums and this corresponds
to the numbers to the numbers for the
number six and the number eight so we
know the corners would have to be two
four six and eight and finally every
edge is involved in a row sum and a
column sum so it's involved in exactly
two distinct sums if we look at our list
of sums that get up to fifteen this
would be the numbers one two
three seven and nine so let's put all
this knowledge to use we know that the
number five has to be in the center we
can put the number one right above it we
can put it to the left to the five we
even put it below the five and we can
put it to the right of five opposite the
one we would have to have nine in order
to get to 15 now in the perpendicular
row or a column we can put the number
three in two different spots if you
focus on the square on the upper left we
can put the three to the left of the one
or we could put it to the right of the
one we could put if you look at the
lower left square we could put the three
above the one or we could put it below
the one so in each one of these
possibilities we can put three in two
different spots that are perpendicular
to wherever the row or the column that
the one is and now we're gonna have to
fill in the 9s and the 7s from the ones
and threes that we put in because seven
has to be opposite three and nine has to
be opposite one so these are a total of
eight different possibilities to put the
odd numbers on the edges and in fact
that's the only way that we can arrange
this the odd numbers were involved in
exactly two songs so that means the
remaining sums are the even numbers and
they're forced by the arrangements we've
already made so these are the eight
different magic squares they actually do
work these all add up to 15 in each row
column and diagonal and so we proven
that eight of them exist and by the
conditions we set up these are the only
squares that could be a three back your
magics where as we've shown earlier
these are all unique up to rotations and
reflections so the 3x3 Magic Square is
really cool it's only one pattern and
the rest of the patterns are related by
being reflections and rotations of the
square thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math and game theory you can
catch me on
Blagh mind your decisions which you can
follow on Facebook Google+ and patreon
you can catch me on social media at
pressure Walker and if you liked this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description